No, it’s not just to make themselves look adorable. Dogs curl up in a ball when they sleep due to an age-old instinct to keep themselves warm and protect their abdomen and vital organs from predators.
Smaller breeds of dogs mature faster than larger breeds.
Many foot disorders in dogs are caused by long toenails.
The best dog to reportedly attract a date is the Golden Retriever. The worst is the Pit Bull.
The first dogs were self-domesticated wolves which, at least 12,000 years ago, became attracted to the first sites of permanent human habitation.
Puppies sleep 90% of the day for their first few weeks.
Seeing eye dogs pee and poo on command so that their owners can clean up after them. (The command is usually "Get busy!" and pups will pace back and forth until they do their business.) Male dogs are also trained to do their business without lifting their leg.
Search and Rescue dog training begin as games played while puppies.
Small quantities of grapes and raisins can cause renal failure in dogs. Chocolate, macadamia nuts, cooked onions, or anything with caffeine can also be harmful.
Teddy Roosevelt’s dog, Pete, ripped a French ambassador’s pants off at the White House.
The Labrador Retriever has been the most popular dog breed since 1991.
Dogs are all direct descendants of wolves.
In Roman times, mastiffs donned light armor and were sent after mounted knights.
Chocolate contains a substance known as theobromine (similar to caffeine) which can kill dogs or, at the very least, make them violently ill.
Police dogs can smell human bodies even when they are buried up to 3 meters in the ground.
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star and he really signed his movie contracts – all 22 of them – with a paw-print.
Hound dogs and long-nosed dogs also have a unique name for their head-type: "Dolichocephalic."
Most vets recommend that female dogs don’t get pregnant until the third estrus.
The Beatles song "A day in the Life" has an extra high-pitched whistle, audible only to dogs. It was recorded by Paul McCartney for the enjoyment of his Shetland sheepdog.
The Mayans and Aztecs symbolized every tenth day with the dog, and those born under this sign were believed to have outstanding leadership skills.
Dogs evolved from an extinct wolf-like creature in Eurasia 40,000 years ago.
Big happy "helicopter" tail wagging is one sign of a really nice dog
A dog’s sense of smell is more than 100,000 times stronger than that of a human.
Chase that tail! Dogs chase their tails for a variety of reasons: curiosity, exercise, anxiety, predatory instinct or, they might have fleas! If your dog is chasing his tail excessively, talk with your vet.
Dogs have a very good sense of smell. The part of a dog’s brain that analyses smell is 40 times larger than a human’s and they can smell 1,000 to 10,000 times better than us.
A dog most likely interprets a smiling person as baring their teeth, which is an act of aggression.
It’s not a fever... A dog’s normal temperature is between 101 and 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. How much do you know about dog health? Take our Doggy First Aid Quiz!
Dogs belong to a biological family called the Canidae, a member of this family is called a canid. This is the origin of the adjective "canine" which means "of or like a dog, relating to or characteristic of dogs".
According to a study shared by Cornell University, dogs were domesticated between 9,000 and 34,000 years ago.
Although it was once illegal to keep dogs as pets in Iceland's capital city, the laws have been relaxed.
Dogs curl up to keep themselves warm and protect vital organs.
The Border Collie, Poodle and Golden Retriever are considered the world's smartest dog breeds.
Dogs are naturally submissive to any creature with a higher pack status.
Dogs have three eyelids, including one to keep their eyes moist and protected.
There is a dog-shaped building in New Zealand.
President Theodore Roosevelt's Bull Terrier Pete ripped the pants off French Ambassador Jules Jusserand.
Express yourself. Dogs’ ears are extremely expressive. It’s no wonder! There are more than a dozen separate muscles that control a dog’s ear movements.
Dogs can see in color, though they most likely see colors similar to a color-blind human. They can see better when the light is low.
Dogs like sweets a lot more than cats do. While cats have around only 473 taste buds, dogs have about 1,700 taste buds. Humans have approximately 9,000.
A dog’s heart beats up to 120 times per minute, or 50% faster than the average human heartbeat of 80 times per minute
Puppies then take a year or more to gain the other half of their body weight.
One of Michael Vick's former fighting dogs, Leo, went on to be a therapy dog who comforted dying children.
This pup, Nesbit, earned over one million Delta airline miles in his life and had his own frequent flier card.
Therapy dogs, who bring healing to individuals and families by visiting hospitals schools or retirement homes, differ from service dogs, who assist individuals who have disabilities.
The fastest breed, the Greyhound, can run up to 44 miles per hour.
Did you hear that? Sound frequency is measured in Hertz (Hz). The higher the Hertz, the higher-pitched the sound. Dogs hear best at 8,000 Hz, while humans hear best at around 2,000 Hz.
The famous nickname, "man’s best friend," is used in many other languages as well as English.
A Border Collie named Chaser has learned the names of 1,022 toys, and can retrieve each by name.
Female dogs are only ready to mate–"in heat"–twice a year for a total of roughly 20 days.
Dogs engage in rapid-eye-movement when they sleep, and have dreams just like humans do.
The average dog is as intelligent as a two-year-old child.
All dogs are identical in anatomy, with 321 bones and 42 permanent teeth.
Male dogs have a bone in their penis.
Obesity is the top health problem among dogs.
The French Bulldog is incapable of reproducing naturally.
The earliest European images of dogs are found in cave paintings dating back 12,000 years ago in Spain.
Max, Jake, Maggie and Molly are the most popular dog names.
A dog's sense of smell is 10,000 times stronger than a human's.
Mastiffs wore armor and were sent after mounted knights in Roman times.
There are hundreds of breeds of dogs.
A dog’s powerful sense of smell is frequently called upon to detect anything from mines and explosives to termites and bed bugs.
The average dog lives 10 to 14 years.
The Basenji is the world’s only barkless dog.
More than half of all U.S. presidents have owned dogs.
Within hours of the September 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center, specially trained dogs were on the scene, including German Shepherds, Labs, and even a few little Dachshunds.
In ancient China, people kept warm by putting dogs up their sleeves.
There are 703 breeds of purebred dogs.
The origin of amputating a dog’s tail may go back to the Roman writer Lucius Columella’s (A.D. 4-70) assertion that tail docking prevented rabies.
A lost Dachshund was found swallowed whole in the stomach of a giant catfish in Berlin on July 2003.
At the end of the Beatles’ song "A Day in the Life," a high-pitched dog whistle was recorded by Paul McCartney for his sheepdog.
Dogs need a strong sense of smell because their eyesight is not as keen as a human’s.
There are nearly 14,000 animal shelters and rescue groups across North America.
When dogs have been doing a lot of exercise, they pant. It is not because they are out of breath like a human would be. Dogs have developed the method of losing heat by panting because sweating would not be very efficient due to all the fur.
The most popular male dog names are Max and Jake. The most popular female dog names are Maggie and Molly.
Watch that plate of cookies! A Dog’s sense of smell is 10,000 – 100,000 times more acute as that of humans.
President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.
Dog’s definitely don’t see like hawks. They have very poor eyesight, but can distinguish movement 10-20 times better than humans.
The name of the dog on the Cracker Jacks box is Bingo. The Taco Bell Chihuahua is a rescued dog named Gidget.
The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
Only dogs and humans have prostates.
It’s been demonstrated that dogs can reduce both physical and emotional anxiety.
The earliest dog fossil dates back to nearly 10,000 B.C.
Dogs can smell about 1,000 times better than humans. While humans have 5 million smell-detecting cells, dogs have more than 220 million. The part of the brain that interprets smell is also four times larger in dogs than in humans.
The smallest known adult dog was a Yorkshire Terrier that was only 2.5 inches at the shoulder, and weighed only 4 ounces.
Dogs have twice as many muscles to move their ears as people.
When "Bobbie," a Collie/Shepherd mix, was accidentally abandoned on a family vacation, he traveled 2,551 miles over six months to return to his home.
Irish Wolfhounds, the tallest breed, are 30 to 35 inches tall.
Bingo is the name of the dog on the side of the Cracker Jack box.
Dogs sweat through the pads of their feet.
Dogs don’t go into menopause and will continue to go on heat indefinitely unless they are spayed.
Move over Rover! 45% of dogs sleep in their owner’s bed (we’re pretty sure a large percentage also hog the blankets!)
The dog was frequently depicted in Greek art, including Cerberus, the three-headed hound guarding the entrance to the underworld, and the hunting dogs which accompanied the virgin goddess of the chase, Diana.
Franklin Roosevelt spent $15,000 for a destroyer to pick up his Scottie in the Aleutian Islands.
In Old England, the word "hound" was used to refer to all types of dogs.
Dogs with little human contact in the first three months typically don’t make good pets.
Dog nose prints are as unique as human finger prints and can be used to identify them.
The most intelligent dogs are reportedly the Border Collie and the Poodle, while the least intelligent dogs are the Afghan Hound and the Basenji.
Dogs often bury bones so that they can dig them up at some moment in the future when they are hungry.
The ancient Mbaya Indians of the Gran Chaco in South America believed that humans originally lived underground until dogs dug them up.
Dogs were first domesticated by cavemen.
Dogs judge objects first by their movement, then by their brightness, and lastly by their shape.
A German Shepherd guide dog led her blind companion the entire 2,100 mile Appalachian Trail.
Chocolate is poisonous to dogs because it contains theobromine.
Apple and pear seeds contain arsenic, which may be deadly to dogs.
National Geographic's Dr. Brady Barr measured a dog's average bite force at 320 pounds of pressure per square inch.
All dogs can be traced back 40 million years ago to a weasel-like animal called the Miacis which dwelled in trees and dens. The Miacis later evolved into the Tomarctus, a direct forbear of the genus Canis, which includes the wolf and jackal as well as the dog.
Puppies can sleep 18 to 20 hours a day during that rapid body growth phase.
The breed of dog with the best sense of smell is the bloodhound.
The Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
At about 6 inches, the Chihuahua is the shortest breed.
Tiger Woods stuttered as a child and used to talk to his dog until he fell asleep in an effort to get rid of it.
Wolves and dogs can mate to produce fertile offspring.
Yummy! Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds. Humans have approximately 9,000 and cats have around 473.
A person standing still 300 yards away is almost invisible to a dog. But a dog can easily identify its owner standing a mile away if the owner is waving his arms.
Dogs with a flesh colored nose is said to have a "Dudley Nose."
Some dogs can smell dead bodies under water, where termites are hiding, and natural gas buried under 40 feet of dirt. They can even detect cancer that is too small to be detected by a doctor and can find lung cancer by sniffing a person’s breath.
At the end of WWI, the German government trained the first guide dogs for war-blinded soldiers.
Dogs cannot distinguish between red and green as these colors would appear as shades of grey to a dog.
Tired puppies get cranky just like little kids. If you have a fussy puppy, try nap time.
Average body temperature for a dog is 101.2 degrees.
Puppies are blind, deaf and toothless when born.
Dog’s don’t see in black-and-white, they have 2 color receptors, and can see yellow and blue.
Puppies love games such as hide and seek! Hide, then call your pup's name so she can try to find you.
Greyhounds are the fastest dogs on earth, with speeds of up to 45 miles per hour.
A dog's average body temperature is 101.2 degrees.
In 2001, it was estimated that there are approximately 400 million dogs in the world.
In 2002 alone, more people in the U.S. were killed by dogs than by sharks in the past 100 years.
The wetness of a dog's nose is essential for determining what direction a smell is coming from.
With love and a little patience, dogs can learn to walk backwards, salute and bow.
Conservationists have used dogs to find bumblebee hives in order to protect endangered species.
It pays to be a lap dog. Three dogs (from First Class cabins!) survived the sinking of the Titanic – two Pomeranians and one Pekingese.
Humans generally see better than dogs, but dogs see much better when there is low-light.
Boxers are so named because of their manner of playing using their front paws.
In general, smaller breeds live longer than larger breeds.
Upright, stiff, rapid tail movement is not wagging or "friendly" but indicates a dog who's rather excited and focused.
The breed Lundehune has 6 toes and can close its ears.
Dogs can use their sense of smell to gauge our emotions, they can smell fear, anxiety, even sadness. This is because they can smell hormones such as adrenaline.
Dogs are about as smart as a two- or three-year-old child. This means they can understand about 150-200 words, including signals and hand movements with the same meaning as words.
Dogs normally have between one to sixteen or even more puppies.
A dog could detect a teaspoon of sugar if you added it to an Olympic-sized swimming pool full of water.
A dog can both sniff and breathe at the same time.
Dogs aren't colorblind but their eyes don't have receptors for red. They see in shades of black and white and also in shades of blue and yellow.
This dog, Naki'o, lost all of his legs to frostbite in Colorado, but now has four prosthetic legs and can run around like normal.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world.
A dog’s mouth exerts 150–200 pounds of pressure per square inch with some dogs exerting up to 450 pounds per square inch.
Dogs with big, square heads and large ears (like the Saint Bernard) are the best at hearing subsonic sounds.
Corgi is Welsh for "dwarf dog".
Humans can detect sounds at 20,000 times per second, while dogs can sense frequencies of 30,000 times per second.
President Lyndon Johnson had two beagles named Him and Her.
One female dog and her female children could produce 4,372 puppies in seven years.
Dogs can get jealous when their humans display affection toward someone or something else.
About one-third of a dog’s brain is dedicated to smell.
There are only 350 Cisky Terriers in the world, possibly making it the rarest breed.
Smaller breeds mature faster than larger breeds.
Puppies are sometimes rejected by their mother if they are born by cesarean and cleaned up before being given back to her.
Greyhounds can reach a speed of up to 45 miles per hour.
Teams of dogs compete for the fastest time without errors in Flyball races.
The ancient religion Zoroastrianism includes in its religious text titled the Zend Avesta a section devoted to the care and breeding of dogs.
Dogs know from which nostril a smell has entered.
Dogs can be trained to detect epileptic seizures in humans.
The longer a dog’s nose, the more effective it’s internal cooling system.
In 1860's San Francisco, two stray dogs who were best friends became local celebrities. Their exploits were celebrated in local papers and they were granted immunity from the city's dog catchers.
If your dog’s acting funny, get out the umbrella! According to a Petside.com/Associated Press poll, 72% of dog owners believe their dog can detect when stormy weather is on the way.
Dogs have a ligament in the neck which allows them to conserve energy while running long distances following scent trails with their nose to the ground. Many other species have a similar ligament and it is called a Paddywhack.
Male dogs know the female is in heat due to a smell emitted from the female dog.
n ancient China, an emperor's last line of defense was a small Pekingese dog literally hidden up his sleeve.
Why do they do that? When dogs kick after going to the bathroom, they are using the scent glands on their paws to further mark their territory.
Dogs are mentioned in the Bible more than 35 times.
In Egypt, a person bitten by a rabid dog was encouraged to eat the roasted liver of a dog infected with rabies to avoid contracting the disease. The tooth of a dog infected with rabies would also be put in a band tied to the arm of the person bitten. The menstrual blood of a female dog was used for hair removal, while dog genitals were used for preventing the whitening of hair.
French poodles did not originate in France but in Germany ("poodle" comes from the German pudel or pudelhund, meaning "splashing dog"). Some scholars speculate the poodle’s puffs of hair evolved when hunters shaved the poodle for more efficient swimming, while leaving the pom-poms around the major joints to keep them warm.
Scholars have argued over the metaphysical interpretation of Dorothy’s pooch, Toto, in the Wizard of Oz. One theory postulates that Toto represents Anubis, the dog-headed Egyptian god of death, because Toto consistently keeps Dorothy from safely returning home.
Most dogs have 18 or more muscles to tilt, rotate, and move their ears.
Dogs like to chew bones but cooked bones and bones that can splinter such as cooked chicken bones should not be given to dogs.
Hollywood’s first and arguably best canine superstar was Rin Tin Tin, a five-day-old German Shepherd found wounded in battle in WWI France and adopted by an American soldier, Lee Duncan. He would sign his own contracts with his paw print.
Even with their poor eyesight, dogs can still see better at night than humans do.
A bloodhound named Tigger holds the record for the longest ears, each measuring more than 13 inches.
Walt Disney's family dog -- named Sunnee -- was the inspiration behind "Lady and the Tramp."
More than 1 in 3 American families own a dog.
In 1969, Lassie was the first animal inducted into the Animal Hall of Fame.
A dog’s heart beats up to 120 times per minute, or 50% faster than the average human heartbeat of 80 times per minute.
Dogs are direct descendants of wolves.
Thomas Jefferson helped enact a dog tax in Virginia, because he was annoyed that dogs were killing his sheep.
During the Renaissance, detailed portraits of the dog as a symbol of fidelity and loyalty appeared in mythological, allegorical, and religious art throughout Europe, including works by Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velázquez, Jan van Eyck, and Albrecht Durer.
Dogs can count up to five and can perform simple mathematical calculations.
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star.
Plato once said that "a dog has the soul of a philosopher."
While not the best when it comes to sight, dogs have a keen sense of hearing, and can hear sounds at 4 times the distance of humans.
The Norwegian Lundehund is the only dog with six toes on each foot.
Just like human fingerprints, no two dogs' nose prints are alike.
More than 5,000,000 puppies are born in the U.S. every year.
When dogs were evolving, bone marrow could sometimes form an important part of their diet.
Dogs have no sense of time.
Male dogs will raise their legs while urinating to aim higher on a tree or lamppost because they want to leave a message that they are tall and intimidating. Some wild dogs in Africa try to run up tree trunks while they are urinating to appear to be very large.
The largest dog was an English Mastiff who weighed 343 pounds.
The world's oldest breed, the Saluki, originated in Egypt around 329 B.C.
The American Kennel Club, the most influential dog club in the United States, was founded in 1884.
Here’s looking at you. Dogs have three eyelids, an upper lid, a lower lid and the third lid, called a nictitating membrane or "haw," which helps keep the eye moist and protected.
After the fall of Rome, human survival often became more important than breeding and training dogs. Legends of werewolves emerged during this time as abandoned dogs traveling in packs commonly roamed streets and terrified villagers.
Dogs sleep for an average of 10 hours per day.
Dog trainers in ancient China were held in high esteem. A great deal of dog domestication also took place in China, especially dwarfing and miniaturization.
Most dogs go in heat every 6 months and estrus lasts between 7 and 18 days.
As Disney's Cruella De Vil was aware, Dalmatian puppies are born pure white and develop spots as they grow older.
Gidget is the name of the Taco Bell dog.
Female dogs carry puppies for about nine weeks before birth.
A one year old dog is as physically mature as a 15 year old human.
The Berger Picard, Miniature American Shepherd and Lagotto Romagnolo are the newest dog breeds recognized by the American Kennel Club in 2015.
Most dogs have 42 teeth.
A German Shepherd named Orient accompanied her blind owner Bill Irwin as he became the first blind person to through-hike the 2,100-mile Appalachian Trail in 1990.
Touch is the first sense the dog develops. The entire body, including the paws, is covered with touch-sensitive nerve endings.
Bingo is the name of the dog on the box of Cracker Jacks.
During the Middle Ages, mixed breeds of peasants’ dogs were required to wear blocks around their necks to keep them from breeding with noble hunting dogs. Purebred dogs were very expensive and hunting became the province of the rich.
A dog can locate the source of a sound in 1/600 of a second and can hear sounds four times farther away than a human can.
Puppies grow to half their body weight in the first four to five months!
Dogs see in colors of various shades of blue and yellow.
The shape of a dog’s face suggests how long it will live. Dogs with sharp, pointed faces that look more like wolves typically live longer. Dogs with very flat faces, such as bulldogs, often have shorter lives.
Dogs have sweat glands in between their paws.
The Saint Bernard gains its name from the "Great St. Bernard Hospice;" the monastery where Barry and other mountain dogs was raised by monks to rescue victims from the snowy Alps.
Endal was the first dog to ride on the London Eye (the characteristic ferris wheel in London, England), and was also the first known dog to successfully use a ATM machine.
Female dogs can get pregnant when their bodies undergo changes which make them receptive to male dogs. This is called being on heat or in estrus.
Dogs can be taught to count and solve simple math problems.
The largest breed of dog is the Irish Wolfhound.
It is a myth that dogs are color blind. They can actually see in color, just not as vividly as humans. It is akin to our vision at dusk.
Puppies’ eyes do not fully open until they’re about 12 days old.
Newfoundlands are great swimmers because of their webbed feet.
New puppies have heat sensors in their noses to help find their moms while their eyes and ears are closed.
The Beagle came into prominence in the 1300s and 1400s during the days of King Henry VII of England. Elizabeth I was fond of Pocket Beagles, which were only 9" high.
Some dogs have shown remarkable ability to detect certain cancers.
Thirty percent of all Dalmatians are deaf in one or both ears. Because bulldogs have extremely short muzzles, many spend their lives fighting suffocation. Because Chihuahuas have such small skulls, the flow of spinal fluid can be restricted, causing hydrocephalus, a swelling of the brain.
In Croatia, scientists discovered that lampposts were falling down because a chemical in the urine of male dogs was rotting the metal.
Most experts believe humans domesticated dogs before donkeys, horses, sheep, goats, cattle, cats, or chickens.
The names of 77 ancient Egyptian dogs have been recorded. The names refer to color and character, such as Blackie, Ebony, Good Herdsman, Reliable, and Brave One.
Pugs and other dogs with short muzzles have a peculiar head-type known as "Brachycephalic."
An African wolf dog known as the Basenji is the only dog in the world that cannot bark.
When Lord Byron was informed that his dog was not allowed to come with him to Cambridge Trinity College, he retaliated by bringing a bear instead.
An estimated 1,000,000 dogs in the U.S. have been named as the primary beneficiaries in their owner’s will.
It is a myth that dogs are color blind. They can actually see in color, just not as vividly as humans. It is akin to our vision at dusk.
Dogs DO have better low-light vision than humans because of a special light-reflecting layer behind their retinas
A German Shepherd guide dog led her blind companion the entire 2100 mile Appalachian Trail
If never spayed or neutered, a female dog, her mate, and their puppies could produce over 66,000 dogs in 6 years!
Dogs’ only sweat glands are between their paw pads
Like human babies, Chihuahuas are born with a soft spot in their skull which closes with age
The breed Lundehune has 6 toes and can close its ears
Teddy Roosevelt’s dog, Pete, ripped a French ambassador’s pants off at the White House
President Lyndon Johnson had two beagles named Him and Her
Franklin Roosevelt spent $15,000 for a destroyer to pick up his Scottie in the Aleutian Islands
In Roman times, mastiffs donned light armor and were sent after mounted knights
The Russians trained dogs during WWII to run suicide missions with mines strapped to their backs
A dog’s mouth exerts 150-200 pounds of pressure per square inch
… with some dogs exerting up to 450 pounds per square inch.
A one year old dog is as mature, physically, as a 15 year old human
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world
France has the 2nd highest
The average city dog lives 3 years longer than a country dog
87% of dog owners say their dog curls up beside them or at their feet while they watch T.V.
Dogs can be trained to detect epileptic seizures
15 people die in the U.S. every year from dog bites
In 2002 alone, more people in the U.S. were killed by dogs than by sharks in the past 100 years
Gidget is the name of the Taco Bell dog
Newfoundlands are great swimmers because of their webbed feet
Basset Hounds cannot swim
Greyhounds are the fastest dogs on earth, with speeds of up to 45 miles per hour
Bingo is the name of the dog on the side of the Cracker Jack box
The bible mentions dogs 14 times
Three dogs survived the sinking of the Titanic – a Newfoundland, a Pomeranian, and a Pekingese
The Labrador Retriever is the #1 favorite breed in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K.
Obesity is the #1 health problem among dogs
An estimated 1,000,000 dogs in the U.S. have been named as the primary beneficiaries in their owner’s will
An American Animal Hospital Assoc. poll found that 33% of dog owners admit to talking to their dogs on the phone and leaving answering machine messages for them while away
Dog’s nose prints are as unique as a human’s finger prints and can be used to accurately identify them
At the end of the Beatles’ song “A Day in the Life”, a high-pitched dog whistle was recorded by Paul McCartney for his sheepdog
70% of people sign their pet’s name on greeting and holiday cards
58% put pets in family and holiday portraits
There are only 350 Cisky Terriers in the world – perhaps the rarest breed
The phrase “raining cats and dogs” originated in 17th century England when it is believed that many cats and dogs drowned during heavy periods of rain.
Dogs have no sense of “time”
Humans have kept dogs as pets for over 12,000 years
The largest breed of dog is the Irish Wolfhound
The world’s smallest dog breed is the Chihuahua
The St. Bernard is the heaviest
Only dogs and humans have prostates
But dogs do not have an appendix
Every dog on earth likely descended from a species knows as the Tomarctus – a creature that roamed the earth over 15 million years ago
The oldest known breed is likely the Saluki – originally trained by Egyptians to help them track game.
In 1957, Laika became the first living being in space via an earth satellite
… while JFK’s terrier, Charlie, father 4 puppies with Laika’s daughter
An African wolf dog known as the basenji is the only dog in the world that cannot bark
There are 703 breeds of purebred dogs
Dachshunds were originally bred for fighting badgers
The world’s smartest dogs are thought to be (1) the border collie, (2) the poodle, and (3) the golden retriever
… while the dumbest dog is believed to be the Afghan hound
A dog’s smell is more than 100,000 times stronger than that of a human’s
… which they need because their eyesight is not as keen as a human’s.
Dogs judge objects first by their movement, then by their brightness, and lastly by their shape
Chocolate contains a substance known as theobromine (similar to caffeine) which can kill dogs or at the very least make them violently ill
George Washington had thirty six dogs – all foxhounds – with one named Sweetlips
All dogs are identical in anatomy – 321 bones and 42 permanent teeth
Smaller breeds mature faster than larger breeds
Female dogs are only ready to mate – “in heat” – twice a year for a total of roughly 20 days
Puppies sleep ninety percent of the day for their first few weeks
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star
… and he really signed his movie contracts – all 22 of them – with a pawprint
The Wizard of Oz’s Toto was played by a female Cairn Terrier named Terry
Their vision is not fully developed until after the 1st month
Dogs have two times as many muscles to move their ears as people
The longer a dog’s nose, the more effective it’s internal cooling system
An elderly woman was saved by her 12 pound Yorkshire Terrier who fought off an 80 pound Akita and survived with only 9 stitches
U.S. Customs dogs “Rocky” and “Barco” were so good at patrolling the border that Mexican drug lords put a $300,000 bounty on their heads
Dogs are all direct descendants of wolves
Wolves and dogs can mate to produce fertile offspring
Female wolves have been known to travel great distances to regurgitate full meals for their hungry pups
Cerberus was the tri-headed dog that guarded the underworld in Greek mythology
Female dogs bear their young for 60 days before they’re born
Dogs’ sense of hearing is more than ten times more acute than a human’s
Humans can detect sounds at 20,000 times per second, while dogs can sense frequencies of 30,000 times per second.
The earliest dog fossil dates back to nearly 10,000 B.C.
Bloodhounds are prized their ability to single out and identify a number of scents simultaneously
Dalmatian puppies are born completely white.
The Ancient Chinese carried Pekingese puppies in the sleeves of their robes
Boxers are so named because of their manner of playing with their front paws
All breeds of dog have been found to attack livestock – from 3 month old puppies, all the way up to thirteen year old poodles
A dog’s heart beats up to 120 times per minute, or 50% faster than the average human heartbeat of 80 times per minute
The oldest dog on record – a Queensland “Heeler” named Bluey – was 29 years, 5 months old
Davy Crockett had a dog named Sport
Dogs were first domesticated by cavemen
Dogs live 15 years on average
Many foot disorders inn dogs are simply an issue of long toenails
More than 5,000,000 puppies are born in the U.S. every year
More than 1 in 3 American families own a dog
Average body temperature for a dog is 101.2 degrees
The Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care
Dogs are natural pack animals
They are naturally submissive to any creature with higher pack status – human or canine
After birth, puppies’ eyes do not fully open until they’re about 12 days old
Dogs with little human contact in the first three months typically don’t make good pets
The Chihuahua was named after the state in Mexico where they were discovered
Dogs have sweat glands at the bottom of their paws (the paw pads). Hence, wetting their paws can help on a hot summer day.
When dogs howl at each other, they adjust the pitch of the howl to sound more unique.
In the dark, dogs use their whiskers to pick up subtle changes in the air currents. This gives them a better understanding of the environment and helps them “see” better in the dark.
Despite popular belief, dogs don’t only see in black and white. In fact, they can see in blue, green, yellow and gray too.
A dog’s nose is always wet because they help in absorbing certain scents. Furthermore, a dog will lick the nose to taste the scent.
The urine of a dog is acidic enough to corrode even metal. So, don’t let them urinate on valuable things.
A dog can sense the earth’s magnetic field. It’s a big reason they’re so effective at finding their way home.
The dog’s nose print is so unique and detailed that it can be used to identify specific dogs. It’s like our fingerprint.
They’ve been a “man’s best friend” since over 33,000 years ago, when they were first became domesticated by hunter and gatherers.
It’s estimated that roughly 21% of all dogs snore in their sleep.
During the Vietnam War, over 4,500 military dogs were sent to help aid the U.S. troops. Unfortunately, only about 200 of them survived. Dogs are friends and heroes.
According to a 2017 survey, the most popular male dog name is Max. On the flip side, the most popular female dog name is Bella.
Dogs can produce like wildfire. A female and male dog, along with their offspring, can produce 67,000 dogs in just 6 years – assuming they haven’t been spayed or neutered.
All dog breeds are descendants of wolves and related to a certain degree.
When dogs poop, they align themselves with the earth’s magnetic field. Specifically, with the north-south axis.
There are roughly 900 million dogs in the world. That’s about one dog for every 8 people on earth! However, two-thirds of these dogs are stray dogs.
Most dogs have paws that smell like corn chips – a phenomenon dubbed “frito feet.” This happens because of build-up sweat and bacteria on the paws.
The United States has the most dogs – home to nearly 76 million dogs. Brazil comes in second, followed by China.
The Russians trained dogs to go on suicide missions during World War II. They would strap bombs on their backs and have them run into front lines of enemy troops.
The popular phrase, “raining cats and dogs” originated from England in the 17th century. It was believed that many cats and dogs died during these heavy storms.
Dogs are capable of sensing drops in barometric pressure and shifts in static electricity field, which allows them to spot an approaching storm.
The average dog can run at the speed of 19 MPH (miles per hour).
Kublai Khan of the Mongol Empire owned 5,000 Mastiff dogs at one point. Unsurprisingly, this is the most dogs owned by a single person.
A dog is able to locate the source of a sound in 6/100th of a second.
The average dog is as smart as the average 2-year old toddler. Additionally, they understand roughly the same amount of words and/or gesture (250).
Depending on the breed, a dog’s sense of smell is 1,000 to 10 million times better than a human’s.
On average, a one year old puppy is as physically mature as an adolescent teen. However, large dogs age faster than small dogs.
The normal temperature of a dog is between 101 and 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit, which would be “fever temperature” for humans.
Dogs and humans release the same “love hormone,” called oxytocin. It explains why we develop such strong bonds with our canine friends.
Like humans, dogs show Rapid Eye Movement (REM) in their sleep and can experiences dreams too.
Amazingly, dogs have twice as many ear muscles as humans and can hear four times better too.
While humans have two eyelids, dogs have three. The “nictitating membrane,” often called the “haw,” helps keep the dog’s eyes lubricated.
Dogs and humans have similarly structured brains. In fact, the same part of our brain lights up when exposed to certain stimuli.
A male dog will usually prefer playing with a female dog. On the other hand, a female dog does not discriminate between sexes. Scientists believe this evolved from a dog mother’s need of taking care of both sexes.
According to a study from the University of Vienna, dogs in general, prefer men over women. And especially with neurotic and/or anxious men.
Wagging the tail doesn’t always mean “happy.” For example, dogs will wag their tails to the right when happy, to the left when scared and wag it low when insecure.
A dog is four times more likely to exhibit aggressive behavior when consistently walked by a male. Researchers believe they’re able to pick up emotions and aggression from the handler during walks.
Dogs like to curl up because of inherent instincts to protect their vital organs and keep warm while asleep.
All dogs understand the power of barking, as it usually elicits a response from the owner – positive or negative. They bark to grab your attention and to try to make something happen.
Dogs can feel jealously, but they can’t feel guilt. Don’t believe those “guilty-looking” puppy eyes!
It’s a lot easier training a puppy if there’s an older dog in the house. This is because puppies do a great job modeling behavior of other dogs.
Male dogs raise their legs when urinating because they want to leave their mark as high as possible. This gives the impression that they are tall, thus intimidating.
It’s illegal to own a pet dog in Iran. Those caught may face having 74 lashes as punishment.
In Paulding, Ohio, it’s completely legal for police officers to bite a crazed barking dog to calm them down. You read right, bite a dog.
It is illegal for your dog to bark after 6 PM in Little Rock, Arkansas. Looks like i’ll never be able to legally live in Little Rock with my dog.
In Chicago, it is illegal to give your dog whiskey. For some reason, just whiskey – not wine, beer or other alcoholic drinks.
You may not keep a smelly odor-producing dog in Galesburg, Illinois. They might as well have just banned all dogs in general.
In Springfield, Illinois, you can get fined if your dog barks for 15 minutes straight. However, they’ll usually wait until the second time around.
You are not allowed to give a dog a lighted cigar in Zion, Illinois. Does this mean cigarettes are okay?
Residents of Oklahoma can be fined for making “ugly faces” at dogs. However, it is completely legal to make these faces at other humans.
Also in Oklahoma, dogs must get a permit signed by the mayor to congregate in groups (of three or more). Even on private property, the permit is still required.
It is illegal for residents of Anchorage, Alaska, to tie their dogs to the roof of a car. Who actually tried this?
In the cult classic Wizard of Oz, the dog Toto was played by a Cairn Terrier named Terry.
Rin Tin Tin, the Hollywood-famed German Shepherd, signed contracts for 22 movies with his paw prints.
The first animal to orbit the earth was a dog named Laika. She was a stray dog from the streets of Moscow and assigned to be part of the Sputnik 2 spacecraft that launched in 1957.
An Australian Kelpie Dog named Maggie set the record for longest living dog, reaching an age of 30 years old. For reference, she was 200 years old in human years.
A private chef prepared a tenderloin steak for Rin Tin Tin every day for lunch. Every meal was accompanied by a live classical music performance to help the dog digest the steak.
Strongheart, Rin Tin Tin and Lassie are the only dogs with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. So, what happened to Toto?
The Taco Bell dog was a Chihuahua named Gidget, who stole the lead role on the first day of filming.
Internet sensation Kabosu was named after a round citrus fruit because of the Shiba’s unusually round face.
The very first dog to appear in movies was a Border Collie named Jean – also known as the “Vitagraph dog.” She starred in her first silent movie in the 1910 hit Jean Goes Foraging.
Many countries have banned the fearsome Tosa Inu. In fact, regions of Japan have even banned the breeding of these vicious Japanese fighting dogs.
The Kishu Kens are extremely skilled hunters and will go as far as climbing trees to stalk their prey.
The mark on the forehead of a Japanese Chin is known as the “Buddha’s thumbprint.”
In 1937, the blind political activist Helen Keller brought the first Akita Inu into the United States.
Japanese Prime Minister gifted Vladimir Putin (Russian President) a male Akita Inu to pair with Yume – his pet female Akita. Putin, however, rejected his offer.
The Shiba Inu nearly became extinct after World War II because of bomb raids and the Distemper virus.
A Hokkaido Inu‘s greatest strength is problem solving, of all things.
Two Sakhalin Huskies, named Taro and Jiro, were abandoned in Antartica along with 13 other dogs. Miraculously, the two dogs survived after a year in Antartica. They’re both remembered as national heroes in Japan.
The toy-sized Shih Tzu is actually one of the dog breeds most closely related to wolves. Don’t judge a dog by its appearance!
The Chinese Shar-Pei was the rarest dog breed in the world in 1978. Because of breed activists, they are the 57th most popular dog breed in the USA today.
All dog breeds have pink tongues except for two Chinese dog breeds: the Shar-Pei and Chow Chow. Both of which, have black tongues.
The Pekingese were worshiped in ancient Chinese temples for many centuries. In fact, royal Pekingese had their own servants too.
Chinese Crested dogs served a vital role on merchant ships in the 14th century. They were in charge of hunting down rats on board, thus preventing the spread of the Black Plague.
In 2014, a Tibetan Mastiff sold for nearly $2 million USD, making him the most expensive dog ever sold.
The name Shih Tzu directly translates to “little lion.” Their name was given because Tibetans believe these dogs symbolized the little lion that traveled with the Buddhist God of Learning.
Stealing a Pekingese was punishable by death in Imperial China. Now, that’s respect.
A group of three or more pugs is called a “grumble.” The term originated from Holland, of all places.
The Tibetan Spaniels are the premier choice of watchdogs for Buddhist monks. They sit high on top of monastery walls and bark at the sign of intruders.
Dachshunds are internationally known as wiener dogs. But, did you know the original name of the hotdog was the Dachshund sausage?
People once believed that Great Danes helped repel evil spirits and ghosts. In fact, it’s why Scooby-Doo was a Great Dane!
A Great Dane diffused a bomb by urinating on it. Apparently, he was awarded with two Blue Cross Medals for his heroic act.
The Giant Schnauzer is called the “Riesenschnauzer” in German. The direct translation of the name is: herculean monster with a walrus mustache.
A Standard Schnauzer named George made international headlines for being the first trained dog to sniff out cancer in humans.
Amazingly, the Rottweiler has a bite force of 328 pounds, which is more than a Pit Bull or German Shepherd’s. It’s about half the force of a shark bite.
The world renowned classical musician, Wolfgang Mozart, dedicated an aria to his pet Pomeranian, named Pimperl.
The Kromfohrlander dog breed descended from a dog that served as the US military mascot during World War II.
In America, the German Spitz was renamed to American Eskimo Dog due to anti-German sentiment post-World War.
A Poodle’s coat (the lion cut) serves the purpose of keeping vital organs and joints warm, especially when submerged in water.
The “French Poodle” isn’t actually French. Rather, they originated from Germany.
Some dogs don’t like to bark, but the Basenji dog can’t. Instead, they yodel.
Due to a genetic predisposition, roughly 30% of all Dalmatians are deaf in at least one ear. Still, they’re able to hear better than humans.
The Fastest dog breed in the world is the Greyhound. They can achieve speeds up to 45 MPH.
The most successful search and rescue dog was Barry, the St. Bernard. He single handedly saved 40 people’s lives in the early 1800’s.
A Norwegian Lundehund has six toes on each paw. In fact, they are the only dogs to have this unique physical characteristic.
The word Corgi in Welsh literally translates to “dwarf dog.” To break it down: cor ‘dwarf’ + ci ‘dog’
Jonangi dogs love to dig holes. In fact, they love these holes so much that they actually prefer sleeping in them too.
Pembroke Welsh Corgis have been a popular tradition in the British Royal family for nearly 80 years. Queen Elizabeth II has owned 30 corgis since she was a child.
The Jeju dog was miraculously saved from the brink of extinction with just the three dogs left on South Korea’s Jeju Island.
Known for their black spots, Dalmatians are actually born with a pure-white coat. Through time, they develop the black spots.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular breed, according to the American Kennel Club.
Dogs are omnivores -- they eat meat, grains and vegetables.
Two stray dogs in Afghanistan saved 50 American soliders. A Facebook group raised $21,000 to bring the dogs back to the US and reunite them with the soldiers.
The earliest European images of dogs are found in cave paintings dating back 12,000 years ago in Spain.
Perky-eared dogs hear sounds better than floppy-eared dogs.
Teams of dogs compete for the fastest time without errors in Flyball races.
Many foot disorders in dogs are caused by long toenails.
Chocolate is poisonous to dogs because it contains theobromine.
One of the most famous Labrador Retrievers was "Endal," an assistance dog recognized as the most decorated dog in the world.
Most vets recommend that female dogs don’t get pregnant until the third estrus.
Dogs are all direct descendants of wolves.
A dog’s sense of smell is more than 100,000 times stronger than that of a human.
President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.
If never spayed or neutered, a female dog, her mate, and their puppies could produce over 66,000 dogs in 6 years!
The best age to bring a puppy home is 8 to 12 weeks.
Bichons, Portuguese Water Dogs, Kerry Blue Terriers, Maltese and Poodles are all good choices if you have allergies since they shed less than other breeds.
The names of 77 ancient Egyptian dogs have been recorded. The names refer to color and character, such as Blackie, Ebony, Good Herdsman, Reliable, and Brave One.
Dogs need a strong sense of smell because their eyesight is not as keen as a human’s.
A dog’s heart beats up to 120 times per minute, or 50% faster than the average human heartbeat of 80 times per minute.
The oldest known breed is likely the Saluki, originally trained by Egyptians to help them track game.
Dog trainers in ancient China were held in high esteem. A great deal of dog domestication also took place in China, especially dwarfing and miniaturization.
Hyenas aren't actually dogs. They are more closely related to cats.
Revolutionary War soldiers sometimes brought their dogs with them into battle. Such was the case with George Washington and his dog, Sweetlips.
The world’s smallest dog breed is the Chihuahua.
The Newfoundland has a water-resistant coat and webbed feet.
Chow Chows are born with pink tongues, which turn blue-black at 8 to 10 weeks.
Dogs curl up to keep themselves warm and protect vital organs.
The current world record for a Flyball race is 14.413 seconds, set by the team "Touch N Go" of Las Vegas.
Humans generally see better than dogs, but dogs see much better when there is low-light.
Puppies are born deaf and cannot hear until they are about 21 days old. The young are born small, blind and helpless and require a long period of parental care.
Dogs sleep for an average of 10 hours per day.
Paul McCartney of the Beatles recorded a high pitched whistle at the end of "A Day in the Life" for his dog.
Female dogs can get pregnant when their bodies undergo changes which make them receptive to male dogs. This is called being on heat or in estrus.
The fastest breed, the Greyhound, can run up to 44 miles per hour.
The average city dog lives 3 years longer than a country dog.
Gidget is the name of the Taco Bell dog.
Fifty-eight percent of people put pets in family and holiday portraits.
Two Labradors, Lucky and Flo, were the first dogs known for sniffing out pirated DVDs.
Obesity is the top health problem among dogs.
One of Shakespeare’s most mischievous characters is Crab, the dog belonging to Launce in the Two Gentlemen of Verona. The word "watchdog" is first found in The Tempest.
Dogs sometimes appear to smile -- much like humans -- with open mouth grinning. This may indicate a relaxed, submissive state.
More than 1 in 3 American families own a dog.
The most popular male dog names are Max and Jake. The most popular female dog names are Maggie and Molly.
The ancient Chinese carried Pekingese puppies in the sleeves of their robes.
The name of the dog on the Cracker Jacks box is Bingo. The Taco Bell Chihuahua is a rescued dog named Gidget.
Although it was once illegal to keep dogs as pets in Iceland's capital city, the laws have been relaxed.
The French Bulldog is incapable of reproducing naturally.
Seeing eye dogs pee and poo on command so that their owners can clean up after them. (The command is usually "Get busy!" and pups will pace back and forth until they do their business.) Male dogs are also trained to do their business without lifting their leg.
The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
Dogs’ sense of hearing is more than ten times more acute than a human’s.
The Norwegian Lundehund is the only dog with six toes on each foot.
Dogs don’t go into menopause and will continue to go on heat indefinitely unless they are spayed.
The Mayans and Aztecs symbolized every tenth day with the dog, and those born under this sign were believed to have outstanding leadership skills.
A couple presidential dogs were Golden Retrievers: "Liberty," the presidential dog of Gerald Ford, and "Victory," Ronald Reagan’s dog.
The St. Bernard is the heaviest dog breed.
Teddy Roosevelt’s dog, Pete, ripped a French ambassador’s pants off at the White House.
President Lyndon Johnson's beagles were named Him and Her.
Dog nose prints are as unique as human finger prints and can be used to identify them.
Eighteen muscles or more can move a dog’s ear.
Dogs are pack animals -- they don't enjoy being alone.
There is a dog-shaped building in New Zealand.
Pekingese and Japanese Chins were so important in the ancient Far East that they had their own servants and were carried around trade routes as gifts for kings and emperors. Pekingese were even worshipped in the temples of China for centuries.
Dogs are direct descendants of wolves.
In ancient Greece, kennels of dogs were kept at the sanctuary of Asclepius at Epidaurus. Dogs were frequently sacrificed there because they were plentiful, inexpensive, and easy to control. During the July 25 celebration of the kunophontis ("the massacre of dogs"), dog sacrifices were performed to appease the ancestors of Apollo’s son, Linos, who was devoured by dogs..
Dogs have twice as many muscles to move their ears as people.
Apple and pear seeds contain arsenic, which may be deadly to dogs.
Some stray Russian dogs have figured out how to use the subway system in order to travel to more populated areas in search of food.
A Beatles hit. It’s rumored that, at the end of the Beatles song, "A Day in the Life," Paul McCartney recorded an ultrasonic whistle, audible only to dogs, just for his Shetland sheepdog.
Small quantities of grapes and raisins can cause renal failure in dogs. Chocolate, macadamia nuts, cooked onions, or anything with caffeine can also be harmful.
Female dogs are only ready to mate–"in heat"–twice a year for a total of roughly 20 days.
Chihuahuas are born with soft spots in their skulls, just like human babies.
During the Middle Ages, mixed breeds of peasants’ dogs were required to wear blocks around their necks to keep them from breeding with noble hunting dogs. Purebred dogs were very expensive and hunting became the province of the rich.
The first dog chapel was established in 2001. It was built in St. Johnsbury, Vermont, by Stephan Huneck, a children’s book author whose five dogs helped him recuperate from a serious illness.
Corgi is Welsh for "dwarf dog".
n ancient China, an emperor's last line of defense was a small Pekingese dog literally hidden up his sleeve.
A one year old dog is as physically mature as a 15 year old human.
The Labrador is so popular, in 2006 there were approximately 3-5 times more Labs as there were German Shepherds or Golden Retrievers.
The phrase "raining cats and dogs" originated in 17th century England when it is believed that many cats and dogs drowned during heavy periods of rain.
The most popular breed of domestic dog in the US and the UK is the Labrador Retriever.
Dogs engage in rapid-eye-movement when they sleep, and have dreams just like humans do.
Three of the 12 dogs on the Titanic survived.
In 2003, Dr. Roger Mugford invented the "wagometer," a device that claims to interpret a dog’s exact mood by measuring the wag of its tail.
The are 4 constellations named after dogs.
Why are dogs’ noses so wet? Dogs’ noses secrete a thin layer of mucous that helps them absorb scent. They then lick their noses to sample the scent through their mouth.
A dog’s vision is not fully developed until after the first month.
Dogs have no sense of time.
In 1969, Lassie was the first animal inducted into the Animal Hall of Fame.
Pitter patter. A large breed dog’s resting heart beats between 60 and 100 times per minute, and a small dog breed’s heart beats between 100-140. Comparatively, a resting human heart beats 60-100 times per minute.
Big happy "helicopter" tail wagging is one sign of a really nice dog
There are almost 5 million dog bites per year; children are the main victims. Dog bites cause losses of over $1 billion a year.
Dogs’ only sweat glands are between their paw pads.
Greyhounds are the fastest dogs on earth, with speeds of up to 45 miles per hour.
Average body temperature for a dog is 101.2 degrees.
One female dog and her female children could produce 4,372 puppies in seven years.
Dogs do not have an appendix.
New puppies have heat sensors in their noses to help find their moms while their eyes and ears are closed.
National Geographic's Dr. Brady Barr measured a dog's average bite force at 320 pounds of pressure per square inch.
Chocolate contains a substance known as theobromine (similar to caffeine) which can kill dogs or, at the very least, make them violently ill.
Max, Jake, Maggie and Molly are the most popular dog names.
Wolves and dogs can mate to produce fertile offspring.
As Disney's Cruella De Vil was aware, Dalmatian puppies are born pure white and develop spots as they grow older.
The earliest European images of dogs are found in cave paintings dating back 12,000 years ago in Spain.
The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
Although dogs have some sweat glands in their feet, their principal way of losing heat when they are too hot is by panting.
Ancient Egyptians revered their dogs. When a pet dog would die, the owners shaved off their eyebrows, smeared mud in their hair, and mourned aloud for days.
The most popular breed of domestic dog in the US and the UK is the Labrador Retriever.
Puppies are blind, deaf and toothless when born.
Why are dogs’ noses so wet? Dogs’ noses secrete a thin layer of mucous that helps them absorb scent. They then lick their noses to sample the scent through their mouth.
The ancient Mbaya Indians of the Gran Chaco in South America believed that humans originally lived underground until dogs dug them up.
If your dog’s acting funny, get out the umbrella! According to a Petside.com/Associated Press poll, 72% of dog owners believe their dog can detect when stormy weather is on the way.
Most dogs have 18 or more muscles to tilt, rotate, and move their ears.
Dogs live an average of 15 years.
A person standing still 300 yards away is almost invisible to a dog. But a dog can easily identify its owner standing a mile away if the owner is waving his arms.
Mastiffs wore armor and were sent after mounted knights in Roman times.
Dogs are all direct descendants of wolves.
Dogs’ only sweat glands are between their paw pads.
It costs approximately $10,000 to train a federally certified search and rescue dog.
Franklin Roosevelt spent $15,000 for a destroyer to pick up his Scottie in the Aleutian Islands.
Puppies can sleep 18 to 20 hours a day during that rapid body growth phase.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world.
Many foot disorders in dogs are caused by long toenails.
President Lyndon Johnson had two beagles named Him and Her.
Dogs can discriminate the emotional expressions of human faces.
The Akita is one of the most challenging dogs to own. Some insurance companies have even characterized it as the #1 "bad dog" and may even raise an Akita owner’s homeowner insurance costs.
Puppies are born deaf and cannot hear until they are about 21 days old. The young are born small, blind and helpless and require a long period of parental care.
A dog's sense of smell is 10,000 times stronger than a human's.
An African wolf dog known as the Basenji is the only dog in the world that cannot bark.
Search and Rescue dog training begin as games played while puppies.
Smaller breeds of dogs mature faster than larger breeds.
Within hours of the September 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center, specially trained dogs were on the scene, including German Shepherds, Labs, and even a few little Dachshunds.
Corgi is Welsh for "dwarf dog".
Wolves and dogs can mate to produce fertile offspring.
Dogs sleep for an average of 10 hours per day.
In Iran, it is against the law to own a dog as a pet. However, if an owner can prove the dog is a guard or hunting dog, this restriction doesn’t apply. Muslim reticence concerning dogs is perhaps due to the fact that rabies has always been endemic in the Middle East.
Is it a duck... or a dog? The Newfoundland breed has a water resistant coat and webbed feet. This dog was originally bred to help haul nets for fishermen and rescuing people at risk of drowning.
Is something wet? Unlike humans who sweat everywhere, dogs only sweat through the pads of their feet.
The Basenji is the world’s only barkless dog.
Chase that tail! Dogs chase their tails for a variety of reasons: curiosity, exercise, anxiety, predatory instinct or, they might have fleas! If your dog is chasing his tail excessively, talk with your vet.
Dogs are natural pack animals.
Pregnancy can be prevented by spaying the female dog, this involves removing both the ovaries and the uterus.
U.S. Customs dogs "Rocky" and "Barco" were so good at patrolling the border that Mexican drug lords put a $300,000 bounty on their heads.
Some dogs can smell dead bodies under water, where termites are hiding, and natural gas buried under 40 feet of dirt. They can even detect cancer that is too small to be detected by a doctor and can find lung cancer by sniffing a person’s breath.
The Labrador Retriever has been the most popular dog breed since 1991.
The dog was frequently depicted in Greek art, including Cerberus, the three-headed hound guarding the entrance to the underworld, and the hunting dogs which accompanied the virgin goddess of the chase, Diana.
The Beagle and Collie are the nosiest dogs, while the Akbash Dog and the Basenji are the quietest.
French poodles did not originate in France but in Germany ("poodle" comes from the German pudel or pudelhund, meaning "splashing dog"). Some scholars speculate the poodle’s puffs of hair evolved when hunters shaved the poodle for more efficient swimming, while leaving the pom-poms around the major joints to keep them warm.
A one year old dog is as physically mature as a 15 year old human.
President Lyndon Johnson's beagles were named Him and Her.
Dogs have no sense of time.
No night vision goggles needed! Dogs’ eyes contain a special membrane, called the tapetum lucidum, which allows them to see in the dark.
Gidget is the name of the Taco Bell dog.
Some stray Russian dogs have figured out how to use the subway system in order to travel to more populated areas in search of food.
There are about 400 million dogs in the world.
Dogs can be trained to detect cancer in humans.
When dogs copulate, it is very normal for them to get stuck together and it may last for up to 45 minutes.
The most intelligent dogs are reportedly the Border Collie and the Poodle, while the least intelligent dogs are the Afghan Hound and the Basenji.
Dogs can count up to five and can perform simple mathematical calculations.
The smallest known adult dog was a Yorkshire Terrier that was only 2.5 inches at the shoulder, and weighed only 4 ounces.
Dogs engage in rapid-eye-movement when they sleep, and have dreams just like humans do.
The best age to bring a puppy home is 8 to 12 weeks.
At about 6 inches, the Chihuahua is the shortest breed.
Countess Karlotta Libenstein of Germany left approximately $106 million to her Alsatin, Gunther III, when she died in 1992.
Dogs in a pack are more likely to chase and hunt than a single dog on its own. Two dogs are enough to form a pack.
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star.
In general, smaller breeds live longer than larger breeds.
Chow Chows are born with pink tongues, which turn blue-black at 8 to 10 weeks.
Humans can detect sounds at 20,000 times per second, while dogs can sense frequencies of 30,000 times per second.
A dog’s mouth exerts 150–200 pounds of pressure per square inch with some dogs exerting up to 450 pounds per square inch.
The wetness of a dog's nose is essential for determining what direction a smell is coming from.
A bloodhound named Tigger holds the record for the longest ears, each measuring more than 13 inches.
In ancient Greece, kennels of dogs were kept at the sanctuary of Asclepius at Epidaurus. Dogs were frequently sacrificed there because they were plentiful, inexpensive, and easy to control. During the July 25 celebration of the kunophontis ("the massacre of dogs"), dog sacrifices were performed to appease the ancestors of Apollo’s son, Linos, who was devoured by dogs..
Male dogs have a bone in their penis.
Those born under the sign of the dog in Chinese astrology are considered to be loyal and discreet, though slightly temperamental.
Dogs are all direct descendants of wolves.
Pugs and other dogs with short muzzles have a peculiar head-type known as "Brachycephalic."
Dogs are pack animals -- they don't enjoy being alone.
Max, Jake, Maggie and Molly are the most popular dog names.
A couple presidential dogs were Golden Retrievers: "Liberty," the presidential dog of Gerald Ford, and "Victory," Ronald Reagan’s dog.
In early Christian tradition, Saint Christopher, the patron saint of travelers, is sometimes depicted with a dog’s head.
The Border Collie, Poodle and Golden Retriever are considered the world's smartest dog breeds.
Pit bulls have been given a bad rap. BADRAP was started in the San Francisco Bay area on behalf of "pit bulls and their people" and was ranked nationally as a No. 1 high-impact nonprofit for animal welfare.
At the age of 4 weeks, most dogs have developed the majority of their vocalizations.
Dogs are about as smart as a two- or three-year-old child. This means they can understand about 150-200 words, including signals and hand movements with the same meaning as words.
The breed Lundehune has 6 toes and can close its ears.
Female dogs carry puppies for about nine weeks before birth.
A dog most likely interprets a smiling person as baring their teeth, which is an act of aggression.
Paul McCartney of the Beatles recorded a high pitched whistle at the end of "A Day in the Life" for his dog.
All breeds of dog have been found to attack livestock, from 3-month-old puppies to 13-year-old poodles.
Seventy percent of people sign their pet’s name on greeting and holiday cards.
Dog nose prints are as unique as human finger prints and can be used to identify them.
If you want a dog to see things in a green background the best color is blue.
n ancient China, an emperor's last line of defense was a small Pekingese dog literally hidden up his sleeve.
The most popular dog breed in Canada, U.S., and Great Britain is the Labrador retriever.
Dogs judge objects first by their movement, then by their brightness, and lastly by their shape.
Three of the 12 dogs on the Titanic survived.
It’s not a fever... A dog’s normal temperature is between 101 and 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. How much do you know about dog health? Take our Doggy First Aid Quiz!
The Golden Retriever, one of the most popular dog breeds, was first bred in Scotland in the mid 1800s.
Bloodhound dogs have a keen sense of smell and have been used since the Middle Ages to track criminals.
Although it was once illegal to keep dogs as pets in Iceland's capital city, the laws have been relaxed.
There are an estimated 400 million dogs in the world.
